=head1 NAME

IOMux::Handler::Service - any mux service

=head1 INHERITANCE

 IOMux::Handler::Service
   is a IOMux::Handler

 IOMux::Handler::Service is extended by
   IOMux::Service::TCP

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # only use extensions

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This base-class defines what interface services provide. A service is
(in the general case) a socket which is listening to incoming connections)

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item IOMux::Handler::Service-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Constructors">

=item IOMux::Handler::Service-E<gt>B<open>(MODE, WHAT, OPTIONS)
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fh>
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fileno>
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mux>
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<usesSSL>
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Accessors">

=back

=head2 User interface

=head3 Connection

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<close>([CALLBACK])
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Connection">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<timeout>([TIMEOUT])
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Connection">

=back

=head2 Multiplexer

=head3 Connection

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mux_init>(MUX, [HANDLER])
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Connection">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mux_remove>
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Connection">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mux_timeout>
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Connection">

=back

=head3 Reading

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mux_except_flagged>(FILENO)
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Reading">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mux_read_flagged>(FILENO)
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Reading">

=back

=head3 Writing

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mux_write_flagged>(FILENO)
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Writing">

=back

=head3 Service

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mux_connection>(CLIENT)

A new connection has arrived on the file-handle (socket) where we are
listening on. The connection has been accepted and the filehandle
of the new CLIENT has been added to the MUX. You may wish to send an
initial string.

=back

=head2 Helpers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<extractSocket>(HASH)

=item IOMux::Handler::Service-E<gt>B<extractSocket>(HASH)
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fdset>(STATE, READ, WRITE, ERROR)
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<show>
See L<IOMux::Handler/"Helpers">

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of IOMux distribution version 0.12,
built on January 27, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/>
All modules in this suite:
L</Any::Daemon>,
L</IOMux>, and
L</IOMux::HTTP>.

Please post questions or ideas to F<perl@overmeer.net>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

