=head1 NAME

IOMux - simplify use of file-event loops

=head1 INHERITANCE

 IOMux is extended by
   IOMux::Poll
   IOMux::Select

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use IOMux;
  use IOMux::Socket::TCP;

  my $mux    = IOMux->new;
  my $server = IOMux::Socket::TCP->new(...);
  $mux->add($server);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<IOMux> is designed to take the effort out of managing multiple socket,
file or pipe connections within one process. It is essentially a really
fancy front end to various kinds of event mechanisms, like C<select>
and C<poll>. In addition to maintaining the event loop, all input and
output of the data stream gets buffered for you which tends to be quite
difficult in event driven programs.

On many platforms, the capabilities of various event mechanisms do differ
a lot. Be careful which mechanism you pick. Test it! Read the man-pages
which contain information about limitations and please contribute
information you discover.

See L</DETAILS> far below for a long description about

=over 4

=item . event managers C<select()> and C<poll()>

=item . managed file handles

=item . differences with IO::Multiplex and IO::Async, plus

=item . interesting implementation details.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item IOMux-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

There can only be one of these objects in your program. After
instantiating this, you will L<add()|IOMux/"User interface"> file-handles and sockets.  Finally,
L<loop()|IOMux/"User interface"> is called to go into C<select>-driven connection handling.

There are currently no OPTIONS, but they will probably arrive in the
upcoming releases.

=back

=head2 Accessors

=head2 User interface

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<add>(HANDLER|BUNDLE)

Add an HANDLER or BUNDLE to the multiplexer. Handlers extend
L<IOMux::Handler|IOMux::Handler>. Bundles are related sets of handlers and
extend L<IOMux::Bundle|IOMux::Bundle>.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<endLoop>(BOOLEAN)

When this flag is set to C<true>, the activities will end after having
processed all currently flagged handles. All open handles when get
closed cleanly.

The loop will also be terminated when all the handlers are removed
(closed) That is a saver way to close the activities of your program
where a call to C<endLoop()> in many uses can be seen as tricky
side-effect of a single handler.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<loop>([HEARTBEAT])

Enter the main loop and start processing IO events. The loop will terminate
when all handles are closed, serious errors emerge or L<endLoop()|IOMux/"User interface"> was
called.

You may provide a HARTBEAT code reference, which will get called each
time the internal C<select()> has found a file handle with something
to do or a timeout has expired. As arguments, it get the multiplexer
object, the number of events and the time left to the next timeout.
The validity of that third argument depends on the operating system
and the actual muxer type.

example: loop

  $mux->loop;
  exit 0;

example: loop with heartbeat

  $mux->loop(\&hb);
  sub hb($$)
  {   my ($mux, $count, $t) = @_;
  }

=item $obj-E<gt>B<open>(MODE, PARAMS)

This C<open()> provides a simplified interface to L<IOMux::Open|IOMux::Open>, which on
its turn is a simplification on using all kinds of handlers. See the manual
of L<IOMux::Open|IOMux::Open> for an extended description of the use.

example: 

  use IOMux::Open '-|';  # loads handler code
  sub print_line($$)
  {   my ($handler, $line) = @_;
      print "line = $line";
  }

  # the short form
  my $who = $mux->open('-|', 'who');
  $who->readline(\&print_line);

  # equivalent to the longer
  my $who = IOMux::Open->new('-|', 'who');
  $mux->add($who);
  $who->readline(\&print_line);

  # or even longer
  use IOMux::Pipe::Read;
  my $who = IOMux::Pipe::Read->new(command => 'who');
  $mux->add($who);
  $who->readline(\&print_line);

=back

=head2 For internal use

The following methods are provided, but end-users should avoid calling
these methods directly: call them via the L<IOMux::Handler|IOMux::Handler>.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<changeTimeout>(FILENO, OLDTIMEOUT, NEWTIMEOUT)

One of the connections wants to change its timeouts. A value of
zero or undef means I<not active>.

The correct OLDTIMEOUT must be provided to make it fast to detect whether
this was the first timeout to expire. Checking the first timeout takes
C<O(n)> time, so we wish to avoid that.

example: 

  # set timeout
  $mux->changeTimeout($conn->fileno, undef, 10);

  # better this way
  $conn->timeout(10);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fdset>(FILENO, STATE, READ, WRITE, EXCEPT)

Change the select bit STATE for the FILENO. Change the READ, WRITE
and/or EXCEPTion state.

example: 

  # clear read and except, keep write
  $mux->fdset($conn->fileno, 0, 1, 0, 1);

  # better this way:
  $conn->fdset(0, 1, 0, 1);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<handler>(FILENO, [HANDLER])

Returns (or sets) the handler which maintains FILENO.

example: 

  $mux->handler(1);   # probably STDOUT

=item $obj-E<gt>B<handlers>

Returns a list of all registered handlers (also the sockets).

example: 

  foreach my $conn ($mux->handlers) { ... }

=item $obj-E<gt>B<remove>(FILENO)

Remove a connection from the multiplexer. Better to use the
connection close method.

example: 

  $mux->remove($conn->fileno);

  # better this way:
  $conn->close;

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Installation

Many components of IO-driven programming are quite platform dependent.
Therefore, C<IOMux> does not enforce the installation of these
dependencies during installation. However, when you choose to use some of
the components, you will discover you need to install additional modules.
For instance, when you use L<IOMux::Poll|IOMux::Poll> you will need IO::Poll.

Many perl modules (like LWP) use autoloading to get additional code in
when it gets used. This is a nice help for users who do not need to load
those modules explicitly. It is also a speed-up for the boot-time of
scripts. However, C<IOMux> is usually run in a daemon (see F<examples/>
directory) which should load all code before child processes are started.
Besides, initialization time does not really matter for daemons.

=head2 Event managers

The following event managers are available on the moment:

=over 4

=item * L<IOMux::Select|IOMux::Select>

uses a C<select> call (see "man 2 select" on UNIX/Linux). The number
of file handles it can monitor is limited (but quite large) and the
overhead increases with the number of handles. On Windows only usable
with sockets, no pipes nor files.

=item * L<IOMux::Poll|IOMux::Poll>

uses a C<poll> call (see "man 2 poll" on UNIX/Linux). Not available
on Windows, afaik. More efficient than C<select> when the number of
file handles grows, and many more filehandles can be monitored at
once.

=back

Other possible mechanisms include C<epoll>, C<ppoll>, C<pselect>,
C<kqueue>, and C<Glib>, may get added later. Connections to other event
frameworks as C<POE>, C<IO::Async>, and C<AnyEvent> may get added as well.

=head2 File handles

The event managers looks to one or more file handles for changes: either
the write buffer gets empty (the program may send more), requested data
has arrived (ready to be read) or (unexpected) error text comes in.

The following handles are supported, although maybe not on your
platform.

=over 4

=item * L<IOMux::Service::TCP|IOMux::Service::TCP>

A server for TCP based application, like a web-server. On each
incoming connection, a L<IOMux::Net::TCP|IOMux::Net::TCP> will be started to
handle it.

=item * L<IOMux::Net::TCP|IOMux::Net::TCP>

Handle a single TCP connection.

=item * L<IOMux::File::Read|IOMux::File::Read> and L<IOMux::File::Write|IOMux::File::Write>

Read and write a file asynchronously.

=item * L<IOMux::Pipe::Read|IOMux::Pipe::Read> and L<IOMux::Pipe::Write|IOMux::Pipe::Write>

Read the output from an command, respectively send bytes to
and external command.

=back

=head2 Alternatives

=head3 IO::Multiplex

=head4 Difference to IO::Multiplex

The L<IOMux|IOMux> (I<Mux>) implementation is much closer to IO::Multiplex
(I<Plex>) than you may expect. Similar enough to write a comparison.

Main differences:

=over 4

=item . Event managers

In Plex, all is organized around a C<select> loop.  In Mux, you have
a choice between various mechanisms of which some still need to be
implemented.

=item . Callback objects

In Plex, the file-handle may have a callback object associated to it. If
not, a default is used.  In Mux, the callback has the focus, which has
a file-handle associated to it. This use if the multiplexing C<select>
less visible this way, which should simplify implementations.

Mux does not support callbacks to name-spaces, because the object is
used for per-handle administration. In Plex, that administration is
located inside the multiplex object (and therefore difficult to extend
with higher level applications)

=item . Callback routines

The Mux implementation defines the same C<mux_*> methods as Plex, but
has organized them. In Plex, the connection accepting C<mux_connection>
and the input callback C<mux_input> are always available, even though
the callback object will only support one of both (if your abstraction
is correct). In Mux, there is a clear distinction between various kinds
of handlers.

In Mux, you have a few more locations where you can hook the process,
a few more callbacks.

=item . Pipes and files

Mux added support for file reading and writing, pipes and proxies.

=item . Timeouts

One should use timeouts on all handlers, because no connection can be
trusted even files (which may come from stalled NFS partitions).

=back

This module started as a rework of IO::Multiplex. It follows the
same concept, but with major internal and visible improvements. Some
core logic of this module has been derived from work by Bruce J Keeler
and Rob Brown. Examples, tests and documentation are derived from their
work as well.

=head3 IO::Async / Net::Async

Paul Evans has developed a large number of modules which is more
feature complete than C<IOMux>. It supports far more event loops,
is better tested, and has many higher level applications ready to
be used.

Certain applications will benefit from L<IOMux|IOMux> (especially my
personal development projects), because it is based on the OODoc
module for object oriented perl module documentation, and Log::Report
for error handling and translations. Besides, the IO::Multiplex
interface is much easier to use than the IO::Async concept.

On CPAN, you can find various alternatives for this module.

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of IOMux distribution version 0.12,
built on January 27, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/>
All modules in this suite:
L</Any::Daemon>,
L</IOMux>, and
L</IOMux::HTTP>.

Please post questions or ideas to F<perl@overmeer.net>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

